DDS: Squid Integration (#18715)
DataDog/integrations-core: squid/README.md

# Squid Integration

## Overview
[Squid][1] is an open-source caching and forwarding web proxy server that operates as an intermediary between clients and servers on a network. It acts as a gateway, enabling clients to access various internet resources such as websites, files, and other content from servers.

> This integration provides enrichment and visualization for Squid logs. It helps to visualize detailed insights into Squid log analysis through the out-of-the-box dashboards and detection rules enhance detection and response capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This integration provides enrichment and visualization for Squid logs. It helps you visualize detailed insights into Squid log analysis through the out-of-the-box dashboards and detection rules, enhancing detection and response capabilities.
```

## Data Collected

### Logs
The Squid integration collects access and cache logs.

#### Supported Access Log Formats

logformat squid      `%ts.%03tu %6tr %>a %Ss/%03>Hs %<st %rm %ru %[un %Sh/%<a %mt`

logformat common     `%>a - %[un [%tl] "%rm %ru HTTP/%rv" %>Hs %<st %Ss:%Sh`

> logformat combined   `%>a - %[un [%tl] "%rm %ru HTTP/%rv" %>Hs %<st "%{Referer}>h" "%{User-Agent}>h" %Ss:%Sh`

Reviewer: Is this supposed to be a table?

> Refer Squid log formats [here][12]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to [Squid log formats][12].
```

> **Note**: Default logformat is `squid`. you can update the supported log format in `/etc/squid/squid.conf`, then restart Squid. below is example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: The default `logformat` type is `squid`. You can update the supported log format in `/etc/squid/squid.conf`, then restart Squid.
```

> For combined logformat add below line in `/etc/squid/squid.conf`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the `combined` type for `logformat`, add the following lines to your `/etc/squid/squid.conf` file:
```

```
logformat combined   %>a %[ui %[un [%tl] "%rm %ru HTTP/%rv" %>Hs %<st "%{Referer}>h" "%{User-Agent}>h" %Ss:%Sh
access_log /var/log/squid/access.log combined
```

> Then restart th squid service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, restart the `squid` service using the following command:
```

  ```shell
  sudo systemctl restart squid

>   ```  

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
```shell
sudo systemctl restart squid
```  
~~~

> **NOTE**:
> 
> - `Top Avg Request Duration by URL Host` Panel will be loaded only if Default Squid logformat is configured.
> - `Top Browsers` and `Top HTTP Referrer` Panels will be loaded only if Combined logformat is configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**:

- The `Top Avg Request Duration by URL Host` panel will be loaded only if the default `squid` type of `logformat` is configured.
- The `Top Browsers` and `Top HTTP Referrer` panels will be loaded only if the `combined` type of `logformat` is configured.
```
